The Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is a National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) specification for the encryption of electronic data.

It also helps to encrypt digital information such as telecommunications, financial, and government data. US government agencies have been using it to secure sensitive but unclassified material. 

AES consists of a symmetric-key algorithm: both encryption and decryption are performed using the same key. 

It is an iterated block cipher that works by repeating the defined steps multiple times. 

It has a 128-bit block size, with key sizes of 128, 192, and 256 bits for AES-128, AES-192, and AES-256, respectively. 

The design of AES makes its use efficient in both software and hardware. It works simultaneously at multiple network layers


AES Pseudocode
Initially, the system copies the cipher input into the internal state and then adds an initial round key.

The system transforms the state by iterating a round function in a number of cycles.

The number of cycles may vary with the block size and key length. After completing rounding, the system copies the final state into the cipher output.



▪ RC4 

RC4 is a variable key-size symmetric-key stream cipher with byte-oriented operations, and it is based on the use of a random permutation. 

According to some analyses, the period of the cipher is likely to be greater than 10,100. 

Each output byte uses 8 to 16 system operations; thus, the cipher can run fast when used in software. 

RC4 enables safe communications such as for traffic encryption (which secures websites) and for websites that use the SSL protocol



▪ RC5

RC5 is a fast symmetric-key block cipher designed by Ronald Rivest for RSA Data Security (now RSA Security).

The algorithm is a parameterized algorithm with a variable block size, a variable key size, and a variable number of rounds. 

The block sizes can be 32, 64, or 128 bits. The range of the rounds can vary from 0 to 255, and the size of the key can vary from 0 to 2,040 bits.

This built-in variability can offer flexibility at all levels of security. The routines used in RC5 are key expansion, encryption, and decryption.

In the key expansion routine, the secret key that a user provides is expanded to fill the key table (the size of which depends on the number of rounds). 

RC5 uses a key table for both encryption and decryption. The encryption routine has three fundamental operations: integer addition, bitwise XOR, and variable rotation.

The intensive use of data-dependent rotation and the combination of different operations make RC5 a secure encryption algorithm



▪ RC6
RC6 is a symmetric-key block cipher derived from RC5.

It is a parameterized algorithm with a variable block size, key size, and number of rounds. 

Two features that differentiate RC6 from RC5 are integer multiplication (which is used to increase the diffusion, 
achieved in fewer rounds with increased speed of the cipher) and the use of four 4-bit working registers rather than two 2-bit registers.

RC6 uses four 4-bit registers instead of two 2-bit registers because the block size of the AES is 128 bits

