DSA and Related Signature Schemes The Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA) is a Federal Information Processing Standard for digital signatures. 

The NIST proposed the DSA for use in the Digital Signature Standard (DSS), adopted as FIPS 186. 

The DSA helps in the generation and verification of digital signatures for sensitive and unclassified applications. 

It creates a 320-bit digital signature with 512–1024-bit security. A digital signature is a mathematical scheme used for the authentication of digital messages.

Computation of the digital signature uses a set of rules (i.e., the DSA) and a set of parameters in that the user can verify the identity of the signatory and the integrity of the data


Processes involved in DSA: 
▪ Signature Generation Process: The private key is used to know who has signed it. 
▪ Signature Verification Process: The public key is used to verify whether the given digital signature is genuine.

DSA is a public-key cryptosystem, as it involves the use of both private and public keys.

Benefits of DSA:
▪ Less chances of forgery compared with a written signature
▪ Quick and easy method of business transactions 
▪ Fake currency problem can be mitigated considerably



Rivest Shamir Adleman (RSA)
Ron Rivest, Adi Shamir, and Leonard Adleman formulated RSA, a public-key cryptosystem for Internet encryption and authentication.

RSA uses modular arithmetic and elementary number theories to perform computations using two large prime numbers. 

The RSA system is widely used in a variety of products, platforms, and industries. It is one of the de-facto encryption standards. 

Companies such as Microsoft, Apple, Sun, and Novell build RSA algorithms into their operating systems.

RSA can also be found on hardware-secured telephones, Ethernet network cards, and smart cards

An example of how cryptography uses RSA algorithms in a practical interchange is illustrated by the following sequence:
1. The sender of a message encrypts it using a randomly chosen DES symmetric key. 
DES (Data Encryption Standard) is a relatively insecure symmetric-key system using 64-bit encryption (56 bits for key size, 8 bits for cyclic redundancy check) to encrypt data.

2. The sender will then look up the recipient’s public key and use it to encrypt the DES key using the RSA system.

3. The sender transmits an RSA digital envelope, consisting of a DES-encrypted message and an RSA-encrypted DES key, to the recipient.

4. The recipient will decrypt the DES key and then use the DES key to decrypt the message itself.



RSA Signature Scheme 
Cryptography uses RSA for public key encryption and for a digital signature (to sign a message and verify it). 

The RSA signature scheme is the first technique used to generate digital signatures.

It is a deterministic digital signature scheme that provides message recovery from the signature itself, making it the most practical and versatile technique available. 

RSA involves both a public key and a private key. The public key, as the name indicates, can be used by anyone for encrypting messages. 

The messages that the user encrypts with the public key require the private key for decryption



Diffie–Hellman
It is a cryptographic protocol that allows two parties to establish a shared key over an insecure channel. 

It was developed and published by Whitfield Diffie and Martin Hellman in 1976. 

Actually, it was independently developed a few years earlier by Malcolm J. Williamson of the British Intelligence Service, but it was classified at that time

Diffie–Hellman Algorithm The system has two parameters called p and g 
▪ Parameter p is a prime number 

▪ Parameter g (usually called a generator) is an integer less than p, with the following property: 
for every number n between 1 and p-1 (both inclusive), there is a power k of g such that n = g kmod p



Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) 
ECC is a modern public-key cryptography developed to avoid larger cryptographic key usage. 

The asymmetric cryptosystem depends on number theory and mathematical elliptic curves (algebraic structure) to generate short, quick, and robust cryptographic keys. 

RSA is an incumbent public-key algorithm, but its key size is large. The speed of the encryption always depends on the key size: a smaller key length allows faster encryption.

To minimize the key size, elliptic curve cryptography has been proposed as a replacement for the RSA algorithm

While RSA uses a key size of 1024 to encrypt the data, ECC provides equal security with a comparatively smaller key size ranging between 160 to 223. For high-level computing,

RSA uses a key size of 7680 to implement security, whereas ECC can provide the same level of security with a key size ranging between 384 to 511.



YAK
YAK is a public-key-based Authenticated Key Exchange (AKE) protocol. 

The authentication of YAK is based on public key pairs, and it needs PKI to distribute authentic public keys.

YAK is a variant of the two-pass Hashed Menezes‐Qu‐Vanstone (HMQV) protocol using zero‐knowledge proofs (ZKP) for proving the knowledge of ephemeral secret keys from both parties.

The YAK protocol lacks joint key control and perfect forward secrecy attributes



Message Digest (One-way Hash) Functions

Hash functions calculate a unique fixed-size bit string representation, called a message digest, of any arbitrary block of information.

Message digest functions distill the information contained in a file (small or large) into a single fixed-length number, typically between 128 and 256 bits. 

If any given bit of the function’s input is changed, every output bit has a 50% chance of changing. 

Given an input file and its corresponding message digest, it should be nearly impossible to find another file with the same message digest value, as it is computationally infeasible to have two files with the same message digest value.

Message digest functions are also called one-way hash functions because they produce values that are nearly impossible to invert, resistant to attack, mostly unique, and widely distributed. 

Message digest algorithms themselves do not participate in encryption and decryption operations.

They allow the creation of digital signatures and message authentication codes (MACs) as well as the derivation of encryption keys from passphrases

The main role of a cryptographic hash function is to provide integrity in document management. 

Cryptographic hash functions are an integral part of digital signatures.

They are relatively faster than digital signature algorithms; hence, their characteristic feature is to calculate the signature of the document’s hash value, which is smaller than the document. 

In addition, digests help to hide the contents or source of the document.











