Blowfish is a type of symmetric block cipher algorithm designed to replace DES or IDEA algorithms. 

It uses the same secret key to encrypt and decrypt data. This algorithm splits the data into a block length of 64 bits and produces a key ranging from 32 bits to 448 bits. 

Due to its high speed and overall efficiency, blowfish is used in software ranging from password protection tools to e-commerce websites for securing payments.

It is a 16-round Feistel cipher working on 64-bit blocks. However, unlike DES, its key size ranges from 32 bits to 448 bits.

This algorithm has two parts. The first part handles the expansion of the key. The second part actually encrypts the data. 

The key expansion is handled in several steps.
The first step is to break the original key into a set of subkeys. 

Specifically, a key of no more than 448 bits is separated into 4,168 bytes. 

There is a P-array and four 32-bit S-boxes. 

The P-array contains 18 32-bit subkeys, while each S-box contains 256 entries

The round function splits the 32-bit input into four 8-bit quarters and uses the quarters as input to the S-boxes. The outputs are added modulo 2^32 and XORed to produce the final 32-bit output



Twofish
The Twofish algorithm was one of the U.S. Government’s five finalists to replace DES, but it was not chosen. 

It was designed by Bruce Schneier, John Kelsey, Doug Whiting, David Wagner, Chris Hall, and Niels Ferguson.

TwoFish is a 128-bit block cipher. It is one of the most conceptually simple algorithms that uses a single key for both encryption and decryption for any length up to 256 bits.

It is a Feistel cipher. It not only works fast for CPU or hardware but is also flexible for network-based applications.

Furthermore, it allows various levels of performance trade-off on parameters such as encryption speed, hardware gate count, memory usage, etc. 

This technique of enabling different implementations improves the relative performance of the algorithm. Any user can optimize the performance based on the key scheduling



Threefish
Threefish was developed in 2008 and it is a part of the Skein algorithm. 

It was enrolled in NIST’s SHA-3 (hash function) contest.

It is a large tweakable symmetric-key block cipher in which the block and key sizes are equal, i.e., 256, 512, and 1024. 

Threefish involves only three operations, i.e., ARX (addition-rotation-XOR), which makes the coding simple, and all these operations work on 64-bit words. 

Threefish blocks 256, 512, and 1024 involve 72, 72, and 80 rounds of computations, respectively, to achieve the final security goal. 

This algorithm does not use S-boxes to prevent cache timing attacks.



