Brute-forcing VeraCrypt encryption is an attack technique in which attackers attempt to decrypt the encrypted data. 

Attackers use the dd command to extract the hash value from the encrypted container, and the hashcat or 

John the Ripper tool to brute-force the password by attempting different password combinations until the key used for encryption is discovered


▪ Extract VeraCrypt Hash 
Run the following command is run to extract the first 512 bytes of the hash value from the encrypted container and save it in a .tc extension file:

dd.exe if=<path_to_container> of=<path_to_hashfile.tc> bs=512 count=1


▪ Crack the Hash value using hashcat 
Run the following command for brute-forcing a 4-digit numeric password: 

hashcat.exe -a 3 -w 1 -m 13721 <path_to_hashfile.tc> ?d?d?d?d 

o a: Brute-force attack mode 
o -w: Workload profile (low to high: 1-4) 
o -m: Decryption mode o 13721: Decryption code 
o ?d?d?d?d: Running hashcat with masks (each ?d indicates a numeric value 0-9)

▪ Additionally, attackers can use the following command for brute forcing with a 
wordlist.txt file containing default passwords: hashcat.exe -w 1 -m 13721 hash.tc wordlist.txt



In the meet-in-the-middle attack, the attacker uses a known plaintext message. The attacker has access to both the plaintext as well as the respective encrypted text. 

This attack is performed by attackers for forging messages that use multiple encryption schemes. 

Consider an example where the plaintext is “John,” and the resulting double-DES-encrypted message is “AvBr.” 

To recover both the keys (i.e., key1 and key2) used for encryption, the attacker performs a brute-force attack on key1 using all the 256 different single DES possible keys to encrypt the plaintext of “John” and saves each key and the resulting intermediate ciphertext in a table.

The attacker brute-forces key2 and decrypts “AvBr” up to 256 times. 

The attack is successful when the second brute-force attack gives the same result as the intermediate ciphertext present in the ciphertext table after the first brute-force attack.

Once the attacker finds a match, he/she can determine both keys and complete the attack. 

At most, this attack takes 256 or a maximum of 257 total operations. This enables the attacker to gain access to the data easily compared with double DES





