 Ciphertext-only Attack Ciphertext-only is less effective but much more likely for the attacker. 

The attacker only has access to a collection of ciphertexts. This is much more likely than known plaintext but is also the most difficult.

The attack is completely successful if the corresponding plaintexts (or even better, the key) can be deduced. 

The ability to obtain any information at all about the underlying plaintext is still considered a success. 

So what does the attacker do with the ciphertexts he/she has accumulated? You can analyze them for patterns, trying to find something that would give you a hint as to the key that was used to crack them. 

Often, the result of this attack is just a partial break and not a complete break.

▪ Adaptive Chosen-plaintext Attack
In this type of attack, an attacker has complete access to the plaintext message including its encryption, 

and he/she can also modify the content of the message by making a series of interactive queries,

choosing subsequent plaintext blocks based on the information from the previous encryption queries and functions. 

To perform this attack, an attacker needs to interact with the encryption device


▪ Chosen-plaintext Attack
A chosen plaintext attack is a highly effective type of cryptanalysis attack. 

In this attack, the attacker obtains the ciphertexts corresponding to a set of plaintexts of his/her own choosing. 

This allows the attacker to attempt to derive the key used and thus decrypt other messages encrypted with that key. 

Basically, since the attacker knows the plaintext and the resultant ciphertext, he/she gains many insights into the key used.

This technique can be difficult but is not impossible.


▪ Related-Key Attack
The related-key attack is similar to the chosen plaintext attack, except that the attacker can obtain ciphertexts encrypted under two different keys. 

This is actually a very useful attack if you can obtain the plaintext and matching ciphertext. 

The attack requires that the differing keys be closely related, e.g., in a wireless environment where subsequent keys might be derived from previous keys.

Then, while the keys are different, they are close. 

Much like the ciphertext-only attack, this type of attack is most likely only going to yield a partial break



▪ Dictionary Attack
In this attack, the attacker constructs a dictionary of plaintext along with its corresponding ciphertext that he/she has analyzed and obtained for a certain period of time. 

After building the dictionary, if the attacker obtains the ciphertext, he/she uses the already built dictionary to find the corresponding plaintext. 

Attackers use this technique to decrypt keys, passwords, passphrases, and ciphertext



▪ Known-plaintext Attack
In this attack, the only information available to the attacker is some plaintext blocks along with the corresponding ciphertext and algorithm used to encrypt and decrypt the text. 

Using this information, the key used to generate the ciphertext is deduced so as to decipher other messages.

This attack works on block ciphers and is an example of linear cryptanalysis. 

The known plaintext blocks are generated using a series of intelligent guesses and logic, and not by accessing the plaintext over a channel.


▪ Chosen-ciphertext Attack
The attacker obtains the plaintexts corresponding to an arbitrary set of ciphertexts of his own choosing. 

Using this information, the attacker tries to recover the key used to encrypt the plaintext. 

To perform this attack, the attacker must have access to the communication channel between the sender and the receiver.

There are two variants of this attack: 

o Lunchtime or Midnight Attack:
In this attack, the attacker can have access to the system for only a limited amount of time or can access only a few plaintext-ciphertext pairs.

o Adaptive Chosen-ciphertext Attack:
In this attack, the attacker selects a series of ciphertexts and then observes the resulting plaintext blocks


▪ Rubber Hose Attack 
Attackers extract cryptographic secrets (e.g., the password to an encrypted file) from a person by coercion or torture. 

In general, people under pressure cannot maintain security, and they will reveal secrets or hidden information. 

Attackers torture victims to reveal secret keys or passwords used to encrypt the information.


▪ Chosen-key Attack 
In this type of attack, an attacker not only breaks a ciphertext but also breaks into a larger system, which is dependent of that ciphertext.

The attacker usually breaks an n-bit key cipher into 2 n/2 operations.

Once an attacker breaks the cipher, he gets access to the system, and he can control the whole system, access confidential data, and perform further attacks.


▪ Timing Attack
It is based on repeatedly measuring the exact execution times of modular exponentiation operations.

The attacker tries to break the ciphertext by analyzing the time taken to execute the encryption and decryption algorithm for various inputs.

In a computer, the time taken to execute a logical operation may vary based on the input given. An attacker tries to extract the plaintext by giving varying inputs


▪ Man-in-the-Middle Attack
This attack is performed against a cryptographic protocol. Here, an attacker intercepts the communication between a client and a server and negotiates the cryptographic parameters.

Using this attack, an attacker can decrypt the encrypted content and obtain confidential information such as system passwords.

An attacker can also inject commands that can modify the data in transit. 

The attacker usually performs an MITM attack on public-key cryptosystems where key exchange is required before communication takes place













