DHUK Attack
Don't Use Hard-Coded Keys (DUHK) is a cryptographic vulnerability that allows attackers to obtain encryption keys used to secure VPNs and web sessions. 

This attack mainly affects any hardware/software using the ANSI X9.31 Random Number Generator (RNG). 

Pseudorandom number generators (PRNGs) generate random sequences of bits based on the initial secret value, called seed, and the current state. 

The PRNG algorithm generates cryptographic keys that are used to establish a secure communication channel over the VPN.

In some cases, the seed key is hardcoded into the implementation.

Both the factors are key issues of the DUHK attack, as any attacker can combine ANSI X9.31 with the hard-coded seed key to decrypt the encrypted data sent or received by that device.

Man-in-the-middle attackers use the DUHK attack to learn the seed value, observe the current session, and obtain the current state value. 

Using this attack, attackers can identify encryption keys and steal confidential information such as critical business data, user credentials, and credit card details


DROWN Attack
Decrypting RSA with Obsolete and Weakened eNcryption (DROWN) is a grave vulnerability that can affect important cryptographic protocols such as HTTPS and other cryptographic services that depend on SSL and TSL.

The DROWN attack is a cross-protocol weakness that can communicate and initiate an attack on servers supporting recent SSLv3/TLS protocol suites.

It is a new form of cross-protocol Bleichenbacher padding oracle attack. 

The server is critically vulnerable to the DROWN attack if ▪ The server permits SSLv2 connection, which is mostly caused by a misconfiguration or incorrect default settings.

▪ The same private key certificate is used on a different server that allows SSLv2 connection, and it also makes the TLS server vulnerable, as the SSLv2 server can leak the key information.

The DROWN attack allows the attacker to decrypt the latest TLS connection between the victim client and the server by launching malicious SSLv2 probes using the same private key.

Using this attack, the attacker can also force the victim client and server to use the RSA key exchange. 

Thus, the attacker can disrupt connections among the latest browsers and servers that favor the use of latest techniques, i.e., perfect-forward-secret key exchange, such as DHE and ECDH

Attackers perform the DROWN attack as part of an online man-in-the-middle (MITM) attack, breaking encrypted keys, sniffing or stealing sensitive information such as passwords and bank account details, and accessing personal emails or messages.

By performing this attack, the attacker can also masquerade as a secure website and thus seize or change the website contents














