MD2, MD4, MD5, and MD6 are message digest algorithms used in digital signature applications to compress a document securely before the system signs it with a private key.

The algorithms can be of variable length, but the resulting message digest always has a size of 128 bits

The structures of all three algorithms (MD2, MD4, and MD5) appear similar, although the design of MD2 is reasonably different from that of MD4 and MD5.

MD2 supports 8-bit machines, while MD4 and MD5 support 32-bit machines.

The algorithm pads the message with extra bits to ensure that the number of bits is divisible by 512. The extra bits may include a 64-bit binary message.

Attacks on versions of MD4 have become increasingly successful.

Research has shown how an attacker launches collision attacks on the full version of MD4 within a minute on a typical PC. 

MD5 is slightly more secure but is slower than MD4. However, both the message digest size and the padding requirements remain the same. 

MD5 is a widely used cryptographic hash function that takes a message of arbitrary length as input and outputs a 128-bit (16-byte) fingerprint or message digest of the input. 

MD5 can be used in a wide variety of cryptographic applications and is useful for digital signature applications, file integrity checking, and storing passwords. 

However, MD5 is not collision-resistant; therefore, it is better to use the latest algorithms, such as MD6, SHA-2, and SHA-3

MD6 uses a Merkle-tree-like structure to allow for large-scale parallel computation of hashes for very long inputs. It is resistant to differential cryptanalysis attacks. 

To calculate the effectiveness of hash functions, check the output produced when the algorithm randomizes an arbitrary input message


QuickHash-GUI is a graphical interface data hashing tool for Linux, Windows, and macOS. 

The tool is capable of hashing segments of text or dynamic hashing as you type into the text field




The NIST has developed the Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA), specified in the Secure Hash Standard (SHS) and published as a federal information-processing standard (FIPS PUB 180). 

It generates a cryptographically secure one-way hash. Rivest developed the SHA, which is similar to the message digest algorithm family of hash functions. 

It is slightly slower than MD5, but its larger message digest makes it more secure against brute-force collision and inversion attacks. 

SHA encryption is a series of five different cryptographic functions, and it currently has three generations: SHA-1, SHA-2, and SHA-3

▪ SHA-0: A retronym applied to the original version of the 160-bit hash function published
in 1993 under the name SHA, which was withdrawn from trade due to an undisclosed “significant flaw” in it. It was replaced with a slightly revised version, namely SHA-1.

▪ SHA-1: It is a 160-bit hash function that resembles the former MD5 algorithm developed by Ron Rivest. 
It produces a 160-bit digest from a message with a maximum length of (264 − 1) bits. 
It was designed by the National Security Agency (NSA) to be part of the Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA). 
It is most commonly used in security protocols such as PGP, TLS, SSH, and SSL.
As of 2010, SHA-1 is no longer approved for cryptographic use because of its cryptographic weaknesses.

▪ SHA-2: SHA2 is a family of two similar hash functions with different block sizes, namely SHA-256, which uses 32-bit words, and SHA-512, which uses 64-bit words. 
The truncated versions of each standard are SHA-224 and SHA-384.

▪ SHA-3: SHA-3 uses sponge construction in which message blocks are XORed into the initial bits of the state, which the algorithm then invertibly permutes. 
It supports the same hash lengths as SHA-2 but differs in its internal structure considerably from the rest of the SHA family








