PKI is a security architecture developed to increase the confidentiality of information exchanged over the insecure Internet. 

It includes hardware, software, people, policies, and procedures required to create, manage, distribute, use, store, and revoke digital certificates. 

In cryptography, the PKI helps to bind public keys with corresponding user identities by means of a certification authority (CA). 

Components of PKI ▪ Certificate Management System: Generates, distributes, stores, and verifies certificates
▪ Digital Certificates: Establishes credentials of a person when performing online transactions

▪ Validation Authority (VA): Stores certificates (with their public keys) 

▪ Certification Authority (CA): Issues and verifies digital certificates 

▪ End User: Requests, manages, and uses certificates 

▪ Registration Authority (RA): Acts as the verifier for the CA

PKI is a comprehensive system that allows the use of public-key encryption and digital signature services across a wide variety of applications. 

PKI authentication depends on digital certificates (also known as public-key certificates) that CAs sign and provide.

A digital certificate is a digitally signed statement with a public key and the subject (user, company, or system) name in it. 

PKI uses public-key cryptography, which is widely used on the Internet to encrypt messages or authenticate message senders.

In public-key cryptography, a CA generates public and private keys with the same algorithm simultaneously.

The subject keeps the private key secret and uses it to decrypt the text encrypted by someone else using the corresponding public key (available in a public directory). 

Thus, others encrypt messages for the user with the user’s public key, and the user decrypts it with his/her private key



Certification Authorities
Certification authorities (CAs) are trusted entities that issue digital certificates. 

The digital certificate certifies the possession of the public key by the subject (user, company, or system) specified in the certificate. 

This aids others to trust signatures or statements made by the private key that is associated with the certified public key


▪ Comodo 
Source: https://www.comodoca.com 
Comodo offers a range of PKI digital certificates with strong SSL encryption (128/256 available) with Server-Gated Cryptography (SGC). 

It ensures standards of confidentiality, system reliability, and pertinent business practices as judged via qualified independent audits.

It offers PKI management solutions such as Comodo Certificate Manager and Comodo EPKI Manager


▪ IdenTrust
Source: https://www.identrust.com
IdenTrust is a trusted third party that provides CA services for many sectors such as banks, corporates, governments, and healthcare. 

It provides solutions such as digital signing and sealing, compliance with NIST SP 800-171, global identity networks, and managed PKI hosting services



▪ DigiCert CertCentral 
Source: https://www.digicert.com
CertCentral simplifies the entire lifecycle by consolidating tasks for issuing, installing, inspecting, remediating, and renewing TLS/SSL certificates. 

It manages high-volume TLS/SSL certificate issuance for multiple individuals and teams



▪ GoDaddy 
Source: https://www.godaddy.com
GoDaddy SSL Certificates offer a complete range of certificates that comply with CA/Browser Forum guidelines. 

They provide the SHA-2 hash algorithm and 2048-bit encryption, protection of unlimited servers, etc





